Hello welcome back to the course on Tablo.
And today we will be creating a scatterplot and we will also learn how to apply filters to multiple
worksheets.
And hooray finally we're going to create more than one worksheet in our table of workbook.
So that's going to be fun.
Let's get straight at it to start off with.
We've got this map here in front of us that we worked with last time and as you remember we have this
filter that we were applying to the map so we are looking at one specific year rather than aggregating
across multiple years.
So let's just remember that.
And let's go ahead and create our second worksheet in this workbook.
So to create another worksheet you got to click.
But in a way here at the bottom which says new worksheets so let's go ahead and do that.
Once you click that it creates a new worksheet and it's a good time now to rename a worksheet so you
just double click on the worksheet name and here will say map of Europe.
And now if you double click on the second one you'll say customer scatterplot.
OK.
So let's get ahead with our customer scatterplot.
So as you remember the first thing that we did in the previous tutorial was to make sure we're looking
at the right time period of our data because it is important to remember when or know when your daughter
includes multiple years or different time periods that you want to look at individually and because
that's a common mistake some times people create a dashboard and they forget to add the filter and instead
of looking at every single year by itself they're looking at the sum for all of the years and that might
not be what they're intending or to see when they're designing a dashboard.
So once again what we can do is we can drag words of data into filter selects years and you know do
the same thing that we did last time but we're not going to do that because what we want to do is we
want to look at the same year across all of our worksheets.
And this is where we are.
So if we had many many more worksheets we wanted to look at the same year across all of them.
And so this is where we're going to learn how to apply a worksheet across many different Apply Filter
across many different worksheets.
So to start off with what we're going to do is we're going to add some data into this worksheet and
then we'll apply the filter and I'll explain in a minute why we're doing it in that order.
So let's say we want to look at some of the sales and columns and we want to look at the sum of profit
in rows.
And so here what has happened is Tebbel has aggregated the total sum of sales for all of the years all
of the customers all the regions for everything and the sum of profit as well and now is just showing
one dot.
And as you remember if you want to disaggregated we can either go to analysis and we can uncheck aggregate
measures and that will be showing a dot for every single one or let's just leave aggregate measures
on.
We can just add some information into the detail of granularity of the view and that way Tablo will
automatically aggregate at that level of granularity.
So how about we add the customer name into detail and right away we have a dog for every single customer.
So what are we going to do now is we will work with that works to create that filter across multiple
works.
So let's go to a map of Europe.
And as you remember this Filcher that we have here and year what we're going to do now is we're going
to right click it and will say apply to worksheets and we'll say all using this data source.
So that means any worksheet using is not a source will automatically have this filter applied to it.
You can also select worksheets but I kind of recommend doing all using this data source unless you have
a specific case where you need to select specific worksheets.
So go ahead and use it on all the work she started using this data source.
Click that and right away you can see that a database I can has appeared on the left of the filter meaning
that is being applied at the level of the data source.
So basically anywhere sheet that's using this data source will automatically have this filter plug.
And if we go to customer scatterplot you will see right away that this filter has been applied here
already.
And if we're right click and we say that we would like to see a quick filter you will see the quick
filter on the left on the right here.
It hasn't been formatted so that's easy to fix.
Customized show all value will just switch that off and then we'll just change to the single value slider
just like in the case.
So now if I change it if I go from 2014 2012 you'll see that this has changed as well.
Over here is change 2012.
Now if I go 2011 and go back you will see that the filter has changed here as well.
So this is kind of a filter that we apply to all worksheets which are using this data source.
Now you'll find that if I go to these worksheets the new ones that currently are not using any data
source because there's no data on the in the workspace the filter has been applied.
And that's simply because Tablo doesn't know if this worksheet is going to be using this data source
or not because eventually you might add another data source and use that one.
In that case the filter won't be applied.
So as soon as you track anything from this work from this data source onto the worksheet let's say a
number of records and just drag it here you will see right away that the filter has been applied and
that's how filters across different worksheets work.
It's a very very handy feature and actually took me some time to find out about it.
And I used to just apply separate were two separate filters so every worksheet and can be a nightmare
when you have like 20 or 30 whereas when you have when you use the word filter that is applied across
worksheets it's very easy to make sure you're all of your worksheets are showing the right information
for that specific year or for that specific region or for whatever you're filtering on.
Very good in terms of consistency.
So let's go back to our customers scatterplot and continue creating it.
So what does this scatterplot currently showing us.
It is showing us the profit profitability of customers so basically based on the sales that we made
to that customer what is the profit that we received in return from that customer as well.
So let's make this scatterplot a little bit prettier because there's a lot of dots here and we really
can't really say anything about the ones that are overlapping.
So what are we going to do is we're going to add some color and the color that we're going to add is
we're going to look at our profit margin because in essence if you take profit and divide by cells that
is your profit margin.
And so if we take profit margin which calicoes field which we created last time and we take it drag
it onto color you'll see that the shapes have been colored now.
Now we're going to change a type of shape.
So we'll just click shape even though we don't have anything on shape right now.
We don't have a variable that controls a shape.
What we can do is we can change the shape ourselves so in this case we want the circles.
And like last time what we're going to do is we're going to change the color to red and blue will click
apply.
So next what we're going to do is change the size of these bubbles so if we go to size make them a bit
bigger.
Well that's obviously too big so maybe some were there.
Yeah that looks OK.
Maybe we'll also change the color in terms of levels.
So we'll go to Edit colors and we'll say just like we did in the previous tutorial we'll say minus 0.5
is opes is already bad so as 0.5 and 0.5 is really good.
So apply.
OK so that's certainly looking better.
And now we've got a map of Europe we've got profitability of our customers.
And oh one more thing is because they do overlap here.
What we can do is we can go to color and change of transparency so let's set it at 75 percent.
So now you can see the times when they overlap and once again this is already quite a good scatterplot
that we've created so we can see how the customer profitability changes from customer to customer.
And if we change the years you can see how the profile changes overall So here in 2013 you've got some
very profitable customers here you've got a bit of a different profile more scattered.
And also if you need to do some investigations you can just put your mouse over a certain dot here and
I'll tell you exactly who that customer is what the profit is what the sales was what the profit margin
for that customer is for that given year.
So that is a very handy tool to have.
Right away it can help you like somebody who's analyzing this.
The sales from the shop.
They can just go and see OK.
The least profitable customers maybe maybe something needs to be done there is some customer service
service or maybe those customers are purchasing Nuro wrong products or something like that.
And then you can look at the most profitable customers and maybe they should be included in a loyalty
program or something along those lines.
So that's how we create kind of plots in Tablo and in the next tutorial we will finally create our very
first dashboard and that will be super exciting.
So I look forward to seeing you then and until next I'm happy analyzing.